added agents with win scheduler content from wiki (#3381)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/managing/nodes.adoc

---
layout: section

> wip: true

Reviewer: Please keep it. The section is not nearly ready. It documents 2 edge use-cases while it has no guidelines for common agent management use-cases

Author: added `wip:true` in header.

= Managing Nodes

== Launch inbound agent via Windows Scheduler

If you are having trouble getting the inbound agent installed as a Windows service (i.e., you followed https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins+as+a+Windows+service[the instructions on installing the agent as a service here] but it didn't work), an alternative method of starting the service automatically when Windows starts is to use the Windows Scheduler. 

We take advantage of the Windows Scheduler's ability to run command at system startup

. Configure your node to use the "Launch agents by connecting it to the master" launch method
* Click Save
. Note the command required to launch the agent
* On the new agent node's Jenkins page, note the agent command line shown. 

> ** It will be like: java -jar agent.jar -jnlpUrl http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** It will be like: java -jar agent.jar -jnlpUrl \http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>
```

URL needs to be escaped

Author: as per Mark suggestion, i have formatted the code as code blocks which escapes the url.

. Obtain the agent.jar file and copy it to your new Windows agent node
* In the command line noted in the last step, the "agent.jar" is a hyperlink. Click it to download the agent.jar file.
* Copy the agent.jar file to a permanent location on your agent machine
. Ensure that you have a java version available on your agent machine

> * If not, obtain and install a [supported version](/doc/administration/requirements/java/) of Java

Reviewer 2: ASCIIdoc, not markdown link...  (Sorry about that mistake in my earlier change)
```suggestion
* If not, obtain and install a link:/doc/administration/requirements/java/[supported version] of Java
```

. Run the command manually from a CMD window on your agent to confirm that it works
* Open the CMD window

> * Run the command (the one like java -jar agent.jar -jnlpUrl http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>)

Reviewer 2: Needs to be separated into a code fragment block for readability.

Needs the URL escaped so that it is not clickable on the page

Author: Is there a markdown hack to wrap code blocks because long code block breaks responsive page.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5441467/83396194-0b5af400-a415-11ea-8dc0-e4f96414ffdf.png)

Author: code blocks formatted in the latest merge request.

= Managing Nodes

> == Launch Java Web Start agent via Windows Scheduler

Reviewer 2: Using "inbound" instead of "Java Web Start" because Java Web Start is not available for Java 11.
```suggestion
== Launch inbound agent via Windows Scheduler
```

> If you are having trouble getting the Java Web Start agent installed as a Windows service (i.e., you followed https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins+as+a+Windows+service[the instructions on installing the agent as a service here] but it didn't work), an alternative method of starting the service automatically when Windows starts is to use the Windows Scheduler. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are having trouble getting the inbound agent installed as a Windows service (i.e., you followed https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins+as+a+Windows+service[the instructions on installing the agent as a service here] but it didn't work), an alternative method of starting the service automatically when Windows starts is to use the Windows Scheduler. 
```

We take advantage of the Windows Scheduler's ability to run command at system startup

> . Configure your node to use the "Launch agents via Java Web Start" launch method

Reviewer 2: The term "Java Web Start" is a source of confusion for Java 11 users because it is not a standard part of Java 11.  We've switched the terminology to refer to "inbound agents" rather than "Java Web Start" or "JNLP" agents.  That terminology is more precise and will reduce confusion long-term.
```suggestion
. Configure your node to use the "Launch agents by connecting it to the master" launch method
```

= Managing Nodes

== Launch Java Web Start agent via Windows Scheduler

If you are having trouble getting the Java Web Start agent installed as a Windows service (i.e., you followed https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins+as+a+Windows+service[the instructions on installing the agent as a service here] but it didn't work), an alternative method of starting the service automatically when Windows starts is to use the Windows Scheduler. 

We take advantage of the Windows Scheduler's ability to run command at system startup

. Configure your node to use the "Launch agents via Java Web Start" launch method
* Click Save
. Note the command required to launch the agent
* On the new agent node's Jenkins page, note the agent command line shown. 

> ** It will be like: java -jar slave.jar -jnlpUrl http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** It will be like: java -jar agent.jar -jnlpUrl http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>
```

> . Obtain the slave.jar file and copy it to your new Windows agent node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Obtain the agent.jar file and copy it to your new Windows agent node
```

> * In the command line noted in the last step, the "slave.jar" is a hyperlink. Click it to download the slave.jar file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In the command line noted in the last step, the "agent.jar" is a hyperlink. Click it to download the agent.jar file.
```

> * Copy the slave.jar file to a permanent location on your agent machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Copy the agent.jar file to a permanent location on your agent machine
```

. Ensure that you have a java version available on your agent machine

> * If not, obtain and install a copy of Java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If not, obtain and install a [supported version](/doc/administration/requirements/java/) of Java
```

. Run the command manually from a CMD window on your agent to confirm that it works
* Open the CMD window

> * Run the command (the one like java -jar slave.jar -jnlpUrl http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Run the command (the one like java -jar agent.jar -jnlpUrl http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>)
```

> * Go back to the node's web page in Jenkins.  If everything works then page should say "Connected via JNLP agent"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Go back to the node's web page in Jenkins.  If everything works then page should say "Agent is connected"
```

* Stop the command (control-c)
. Register a new scheduled job to run the same command
* Open "Task Scheduler" on your windows machine
** Start -> Run: task Scheduler
* Create a basic task (Menu: Action -> Create Basic Task)
** First page of the wizard:
*** Name: Jenkins Agent
*** Description (optional)
*** Click Next
** Next page of the wizard
*** When do you want the task to start: select "When the computer starts"
*** Click Next
** Next page of the wizard
*** What action do you want the task to perform: select "Start a program"
*** Click Next
** Next page of the wizard
*** Program/Script: enter "java.exe" (or the full path to your java.exe)

> *** Add arguments: enter the rest of the command, like " -jar slave.jar -jnlpUrl http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** Add arguments: enter the rest of the command, like " -jar agent.jar -jnlpUrl http://<JenkinsHostName>:8080/computer/<nodeName>/slave-agent.jnlp -secret <some_long_hex_string>"
```

> *** eg: -jar D:\Scripts\jenkins\slave.jar -jnlpUrl [.nolink]#http://jenkinshost.example.com:8080/computer/buildNode1/slave-agent.jnlp# -secret d6a84df1fc4f45ddc9c6ab34b08f13391983ffffffffffb3488b7d5ac77fbc7

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** eg: -jar D:\Scripts\jenkins\agent.jar -jnlpUrl [.nolink]#http://jenkinshost.example.com:8080/computer/buildNode1/slave-agent.jnlp# -secret d6a84df1fc4f45ddc9c6ab34b08f13391983ffffffffffb3488b7d5ac77fbc7
```

*** Click Next
** Next page of the wizard
*** Click the check box "Open the Properties dialog for this task when I click Finish
*** Click Finish
* Update the task's properties
** On the General tab
*** Select the user to run the task as

> *** Select "Run whether use is logged on or not"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** Select "Run whether user is logged on or not"
```

** On the settings tab
*** Uncheck "Stop the task if it runs longer than"
*** Check "Run the task as soon as possible after a scheduled start is missed"
*** Check "If the task failed, restart every: 10 minutes", and "Attempt to restart up to: 3 times"
** Click OK

> . Start the scheduled task and again check that Jenkins can connect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Start the scheduled task and again check that the agent is connected
```

> * Go back to the node's web page in Jenkins.  If everything works then page should say "Connected via JNLP agent"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Go back to the node's web page in Jenkins.  If everything works then page should say "Agent is connected"
```
